/**

\page UserDiscretization Discretization and numerical convergence

By the nature of numerical methods, SKIRT discretizes the physical quantities defining a simulated model into distinct
resolution elements. Various parameters in the configuration ski file control the level of discretization. Generally
speaking, a finer-grained resolution improves the approximation to the continuous variables and thus the simulation
results, while also increasing the computational costs. To find a acceptable balance, and to ensure meaningful results,
<b>it essential to perform numerical convergence tests</b>.

The first section below describes the generic procedure for testing numerical convergence. Subsequent sections consider
the following categories of physical quantities and corresponding discretization mechanisms:

- \ref UserDiscretizationSpatial
- \ref UserDiscretizationSpectral
- \ref UserDiscretizationEnergy
- \ref UserDiscretizationMaterial

\section UserDiscretizationTesting Determining numerical convergence

For the vast majority of SKIRT simulations, the correct result is not known a priori - usually that's why we perform
the simulations to begin with. We therefore need mechanisms that enhance our confidence in the simulated observables.

The most fundamental issue is the quality of the model, or in other words, how accurately the model represents the
astrophyscial system under consideration. The scientific community predominantly tackles this problem by comparing
simulation results with observed data, and improving the computer models iteratively over time. A second issue is the
correctness of the algorithms and their implementation in the simulation code. SKIRT has been benchmarked, tested and
used extensively, so we can be fairly confident in this area.

The discussion here, however, focuses on numerical issues, and specifically the effects of discretization. The SKIRT
user is responsible for setting the parameters in the configuration ski file that control the level of discretization
of the various model properties (spatial and spectral distributions) and simulation algorithms (photon packets). But
how to find the parameter values that produce a meaningful result using an acceptable amount of compute resources?

A good starting point can often be found in papers where authors describe their use of SKIRT for applications similar
to yours (see \ref PublicationsGallery). Likewise, the examples and guidelines offered in the SKIRT user guide form a
important body of information (see \ref UserGuide). Still, the optimal values depend on the specific properties of the
model and on the observables being simulated. It is therefore always necessary to perform further tests.

The overall idea is to refine the discretization resolution until the relevant simulated observables are converged,
i.e. the observables no longer change significantly between resolution steps. The procedure can be summarized as
follows:

- Construct a set of models that is representative for your study. For example, include varying geometries and sizes,
provide a range of optical depths, or simply randomly select models. Depending on your study, this set may include a
single model or several dozens of models.

- Select the simulated observables that are key to your study. Perhaps your study focuses on simulated spectra or
images. Alternatively, your study may focus on quantities derived from these simulation results.

- Choose an appropriate distance metric for comparing two versions of an observable. This is trivial for scalar values
such as a colour but somewhat more tricky for observables with many values such as spectra or images. For example, use
the maximum difference, the 90 percentile difference, a mean square root difference, or any other metric that makes
sense in your case. You may end up with multiple metrics to cover all relevant observables in your study.

- For each of these metrics/observables, define a criterion for acceptable accuracy. For example, a criterion might
require the simulated spectrum to be accurate within 0.1 dex across the full wavelength range.

- Based on experience or external guidance, set initial parameter values specifying a fairly coarse resolution that
should provide reasonable but not yet perfect results. Run the simulation and store the results.

- Adjust the parameters to specify significantly finer resolution (say, by a factor 3 to 5). Run the simulation and
store the results. Compare the metrics of the simulation observables for this simulation and the previous one.
If the accuracy criterion is met for all metrics, consider the results to be converged. If not, repeat with
finer resolution until convergence has been reached.

- The last simulation in the above iteration determines the proper parameter values. Or, if it is really important to
fine-tune the simulation runtime (and perhaps memory usage), you can backtrack to a coarser resolution or perform a
binary search if the accuracy criteria are significantly exceeded.

You usually need to perform this procedure for each of the discretization mechanisms (see the following sections)
employed by the SKIRT simulations for your study. In some specific cases you can instead pinpoint the proper values
with a high degree of confidence based on experience or external guidance.

\note SKIRT can produce statistical information which can be used as a metric to more precisely evaluate the
reliability of simulated observables as a function of the number of emitted photon packets. See \ref UserStatistics.


\section UserDiscretizationSpatial Spatial discretization of the transfer medium

Bla.


\section UserDiscretizationSpectral Spectral discretization of the radiation field and instruments

Bla.


\section UserDiscretizationEnergy Discretization of the energy flow (photon packets)

Bla.

\section UserDiscretizationMaterial Discretization of material properties

Bla.


*/
